add bundling documentation (#234)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/testrunner-toolkit/bundling.md

---
id: bundling
title: Bundling Test Files

> sidebar_label: CLI Reference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Bundling Test Files
```

@dpgraham , is the `sidebar_label` supposed to say 'CLI Reference' or was that from a copy + paste?

---

> The [saucectl command line interface](saucectl) runs tests (Cypress, TestCafe, Playwright, ...) by bundling up your root directory, sending the bundle to the Sauce Labs cloud (or in your own infrastructure via Docker), unpacking the bundle and then running the tests. This page explains how bundling works and how you can reduce the size of your bundle for improved performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [saucectl command line interface](/testrunner-toolkit/saucectl) runs tests (Cypress, TestCafe, Playwright, ...) by bundling up your root directory, sending the bundle to the Sauce Labs cloud (or in your own infrastructure via Docker), unpacking the bundle, and then running the tests. This page explains how bundling works and how you can reduce the size of your bundle for improved performance.
```

## Bundling

> The Sauce Labs config.yml has a parameter called "rootDir" that tells saucectl where your test files are ([see configuration documentation](configuration.md)). These test files get bundled and uploaded to the Sauce Labs cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sauce Labs `config.yml` has a parameter called "rootDir" that tells saucectl where your test files are ([see configuration documentation](/testrunner-toolkit/configuration.md)). These test files get bundled and uploaded to the Sauce Labs cloud.
```

> ![img](../../static/img/saucectl/uploading-project.png)

Reviewer: You'll need to add this line:

`import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';`

right below the front matter and then replace the markdown for the image ref tag to this:

`<img src={useBaseUrl('img/saucectl/uploading-project.png')} alt="Uploading a Project" />`

Otherwise we get broken image tags once CI runs `npm run build`

> ## sauceignore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `sauceignore`
```

> The `.sauceignore` file is a file that is generated when you run `saucectl new`. It tells saucectl which files should be excluded from bundling. It works the same way as other ignore files (`.gitignore`, `.hgignore`, `.dockerignore`, etc...). See https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore for reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `.sauceignore` file is generated when you run `saucectl new`. It tells saucectl which files to exclude from bundling. It works the same way as other ignore files (`.gitignore`, `.hgignore`, `.dockerignore`, etc...). See [https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) for reference.
```

If your project has files that are not needed to run your tests, add those files to `.sauceignore` to reduce the size of your bundle and improve test speed.

Examples of what can be included in `.sauceignore`:

```bash
# .sauceignore

# Ignore node_modules
node_modules/

# Ignore all log files
*.log

# Ignore executables/binaries
*.exe
*.bin
**/*/bin

# Ignore media files
*.png
*.jpeg
*.jpg
*.mp4

# Ignore documentation
*.rst
*.md
```

## Node Dependencies

> By default, `node_modules/` is included in `.sauceignore` so that locally installed node dependencies are not included in the bundle. If node dependencies are needed for tests to run, you have two options: [1. Include `node_modules` with your bundle](#including-node_modules-in-bundle) or [2. Set NPM packages in config.yml](#set-npm-packages-in-configyml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default `node_modules/` is included in `.sauceignore`, therefore the bundling process excludes locally installed node dependencies. If node dependencies are a requirement in order for tests to run, you have two options: 

1. [Include `node_modules` with your bundle](#including-node_modules-in-bundle) or 
2. [Set NPM packages in config.yml](#set-npm-packages-in-configyml)
```

> ### Including "node_modules" in bundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Including "node_modules" in Bundle
```

```bash
# Do NOT exclude node_modules from bundle
# node_modules/
```

Since node dependencies can be quite large (potentially hundreds of megabytes) you may wish to follow some of these tips to reduce the size

#### 1. Only install "devDependencies"

You may only need `devDependencies` and not need prod `dependencies`. Try only installing NPM dev dependencies.

```bash
# Only install dev dependencies
npm install --only=dev

saucectl run
```

#### 2. Remove unneeded dependencies prior to bundling

If there are dependencies that aren't needed to run your tests, you can uninstall them prior to bundling

```bash
# Install node dependencies
npm ci # or "npm install"

# Remove any unneeded dependencies
npm uninstall appium
npm uninstall express

saucectl run
```

#### 3. Only install dependencies that are needed

If you only need a few dependencies to run your tests, you can just install those dependencies individually, instead of running `npm install` or `npm ci`

```bash
# Install individual dependencies
npm install cypress-xpath
npm install @cypress/react

saucectl run
```

> ### Set NPM packages in config.yml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set NPM Packages in `config.yml`
```

> You can hardcode a list of NPM packages you wish to have installed in your sauce config yml. [See documentation](configuration#npm)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can hardcode a list of NPM packages you wish to have installed in your sauce config yml. [See documentation](/testrunner-toolkit/configuration#npm)
```
